# p70-jess-8.0

## Jess (Java Expert System Shell)

- Jess is a trademark of the Sandia Corporation

- Oracle Thecnical Resources: https://www.oracle.com/technical-resources/articles/javase/javarule.html

  - Because the JSR 94 reference implementation is built as a wrapper over the Jess rule engine, you will need Jess 6.1a3 or later in order to work with the reference implementation. Jess, which stands for Java Expert System Shell, is a rule engine and a scripting environment. Note that Jess is not freeware: It can be licensed for commercial use, and it is available for academic use. The JSR 94 reference implementation license is governed under the Jess license agreement. The Jess language and scripting environment evolved from the CLIPS expert system shell, which was initially developed by NASA. The CLIPS system language syntax and structure are similar to the LISP functional programming language.

To test the JSR 94 reference implementation, do the following:

 1. Download the JSR 94 reference implementation and install it by unzipping the archive in a directory of your choice.
 1. Download Jess. Once you unzip the archive, copy the file jess.jar from the Jess installation directory to the lib directory of your JSR 94 reference implementation installation.
 1.Change the directory to lib under your JSR 94 reference implementation installation
 1. Run the sample example using the following command:


    java -jar jsr94-example.jar
    
    

If all goes well, you will see output similar to the following. This output was generated by the sample application that we will discuss next.




# p70-jess-8.0

